.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VITUNES-TAG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vitunes-tag
.Nd set the meta-information tags in media files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vitunes -e tag
.Bk -words
.Op Fl A Ar album
.Op Fl a Ar artist
.Op Fl g Ar genre
.Op Fl t Ar title
.Op Fl T Ar track
.Op Fl y Ar year
.Op Fl c Ar comment
.Ar path
.Op ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Ic tag
e-command is provided to add or change the meta-information tags of media
files.
The meta-information fields that can be set are: artist, album, title,
genre, track, year, and comment.
.Pp
For each
.Ar path
specified, the given fields will be set to the provided value.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl A Ar album
Sets the album field to the provided string.
.It Fl a Ar artist
Sets the artist field to the provided string.
.It Fl c Ar comment
Sets the comment field to the provided string.
.It Fl g Ar genre
Sets the genre field to the provided string.
.It Fl T Ar track
Sets the track field to the provided number.
Note that the number must be between 0 and INT_MAX.
.It Fl t Ar title
Sets the title field to the provided string.
.It Fl y Ar year
Sets the year field to the provided number.
Note that the number must be between 0 and INT_MAX.
.El
.Sh NOTES
This e-command only changes the meta-information in the raw files themselves
and not the values in the
.Xr vitunes 1
database.
To update the vitunes database after tagging, use the
.Ic add
or
.Ic update
e-commands.
.Sh EXAMPLES
CD rippers frequently pull information from CDDB (or other databases)
where, for example, a "The" is missing from an artist/album name when it
is, in fact, appropriate.
Below is an example of correcting this and then updating the
.Xr vitunes 1
database:
.Pp
.Dl $ vitunes -e tag -a \&"The White Stripes" /path/to/De_Stijl/*
.Dl $ vitunes -e update
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-add 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-update 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ryan Flannery Aq Mt ryan.flannery@gmail.com .
