.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VITUNES-INIT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vitunes-init
.Nd initialize the vitunes media database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vitunes -e init
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The init command is used to setup the initial files and directories
used by
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
and must be run once.  Running it additional times will have no affect.
.Pp
The files created by
.Nm vitunes-init
include:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa ~/.vitunes/
The root directory where, by default, the
.Nm
database and playlists are stored.
.It Pa ~/.vitunes/vitunes.db
The library database containing the meta information of all media files
that
.Nm
is aware of.
.It Pa ~/.vitunes/playlists/
The directory where every playlist (each a separate file) is stored.
.El
.Pp
The database created is initially empty, and files must be added before
.Nm
can be run normally.  See
.Xr vitunes-add 1
for instructions on doing this.
.Pp
This command takes no parameters.
.Pp
It is not strictly necessary to run this command to start using
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
as you could use an existing installation, or create the needed files
and directories yourself.  It is provided for convenience.
.Sh EXAMPLES
As the
.Nm
command takes no arguments, it's only usage is the following:
.Dl $ vitunes -e init
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-add 1 .
.Pp
For an overview of how
.Nm vitunes
works, see the
.Sx GETTING STARTED
section in
.Xr vitunes 1 .
