.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VITUNES-ADD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vitunes-add
.Nd add files to the database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vitunes -e add
.Bk -words
.Ar path
.Op ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Ic add
e-command is used to add files to the
.Nm vitunes
database.
For every
.Ar path
provided as a parameter,
.Nm vitunes
will scan that file or directory (recursively) searching for media files
that contain any meta-information.
Any such files found are added to the database that was created after running
.Xr vitunes-init 1 .
.Pp
If any files scanned are already in the database they will be re-scanned
and any changes will be updated.
Files that are scanned are not moved, copied, or modified in any way.
.Pp
The information
.Nm vitunes
stores for each file includes:
.Bl -column "Really long string" "Really long string" -offset indent
.It Li "Filename" Ta "Track Number"
.It Li "Artist Name" Ta "Year"
.It Li "Album Name" Ta "Genre"
.It Li "Song or Video title" Ta "Play Length in seconds"
.El
.Pp
The filename stored is the absolute pathname obtained from
.Xr realpath 3
and serves as the key-field within the database.
.Pp
All meta-data is extracted using
.Xr TagLib 3 .
.Pp
If any file encountered has no meta-information, it is not added to the
database.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To add a single file to the database:
.Pp
.Dl $ vitunes -e add /path/to/music.mp3
.Pp
To search directories recursively and add all files contained:
.Pp
.Dl $ vitunes -e add ~/music /usr/local/share/music
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-init 1 ,
.Xr realpath 3 ,
.Xr TagLib 3
.Pp
More information about TagLib can be found on the TagLib website:
.Lk http://developer.kde.org/~wheeler/taglib.html
.Sh NOTES
.Nm vitunes
only maintains information about the file and not the file itself.
It does
.Sy not
move/copy/modify the files in its database in any way.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ryan Flannery Aq Mt ryan.flannery@gmail.com .
