.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VITUNES-UPDATE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vitunes-update
.Nd update all files in the database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vitunes -e update
.Bk -words
.Op Fl fs
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Ic update
e-command loads the existing
.Xr vitunes 1
database and for each file listed, the file is checked to see if it has
been removed or modified since it was added to the database or last
updated.
If the file has been removed, it will be removed from the database.
If the file has been modified, it's meta-information will be extracted again
and the database will be updated.
.Pp
Note that if there are errors while checking any file, the error will be
reported but such files, and their meta-information, will remain in the
database.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl f
Force the update of meta-information of all files, even if their
modification times haven't changed.
.It Fl s
When present, files that are skipped because they have not been modified
will also be reported to
.Xr stdout 4 .
Normally, only files that are updated are reported.
.El
.Pp
Anytime media files are removed/modified which are already in the
.Xr vitunes 1
database, the
.Ic update
e-command should be used.
.Sh NOTES
Any files/URLs added to the database using the
.Ic addurl
e-command will
.Sy not
be checked/updated in any way, for obvious reasons.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To scan all files in the
.Xr vitunes 1
database for updates, simply use:
.Pp
.Dl $ vitunes -e update
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-add 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ryan Flannery Aq Mt ryan.flannery@gmail.com .
