.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Flannery <ryan.flannery@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt VITUNES-ADDURL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vitunes-addurl
.Nd add a URL (or other non-file playable item) to the vitunes database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vitunes -e addurl Ar URL
.Sh DESCRIPTION
To add non-standard files to the
.Xr vitunes 1
database (things like URL's for Internet radio streams), one can use the
.Nm
command. It takes a single parameter: the URL/filename to be added to the
database.
.Pp
Since meta-information can't be extracted automatically for most URL's,
.Nm
will prompt you to manually enter all such information (artist, album,
title, track, year, and genre). You may leave any/all of the fields
blank.
.Pp
Note that anything
.Xr mplayer 1
or
.Xr gstreamer 3
can play may be added.  To test if a URL is playable by
.Xr mplayer 1 ,
simply try the following, and if it plays, it may be added:
.Dl $ mplayer URL
.Pp
Although regular files could also be added using this command, the
.Xr vitunes-add 1
command is preferred, as it attempts to extract meta information
automatically.
.Pp
Note that files added to the database using the addurl command are NOT
checked for updates during a
.Xr vitunes-update 1
command.
.Pp
The addurl command can also be used to change the meta-information of an
existing URL within the database.
.Sh EXAMPLES
An example of adding an Internet radio stream would look something like
the following:
.Bd -literal
   $ vitunes -e addurl \"http://198.234.121.118:80\"
   Artist: WVXU Online Radio<ENTER>
    Album: Cincinnati Public Radio<ENTER>
    Title: NPR<ENTER>
    Track: <ENTER>
     Year: <ENTER>
    Genre: Radio<ENTER>
   Length: INF<ENTER>
.Ed
.Sh NOTES
When the
.Xr vitunes 1
database has to be re-built (because of say, an upgrade where the
database format has changed, or you simply deleted your database),
re-adding URL's can be tedious.  To ease this, consider using a shell
script such as the 'add_urls.sh' script found on the
.Xr vitunes 1
website for storing & adding all of your URL's.  The script simply
executes the
.Nm
command with all meta-information provided.
.Pp
As an example, the above could be automated using the following simple
shell script:
.Bd -literal
      #!/bin/sh
      echo "WVXU Online Radio Cincinnati Public Radio\\n
      NPR\\n
      \\n
      \\n
      Radio\\n
      INF\\n" | vitunes -e addurl "http://198.234.121.118:80"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vitunes 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-init 1 ,
.Xr vitunes-add 1 .
.Pp
For an overview of how
.Nm vitunes
works, see the
.Sx GETTING STARTED
section in
.Xr vitunes 1 .
